Title: File Hierarchy Systems
Date: 2017-03-25 13:28
Modified: 2017-03-25 13:28
Category: Learning
Tags: FHS, File Hierarchy
Slug: fhs
Authors: Rishabh Chakrabarti
Summary: An insight into FHS
Status:draft

# Filesystem

It is possible to define two independent distinctions among files :

1. Shareable v/s
2. Unshareable

and

1. Variable v/s
2. Static

**In general, files that differ in either of these respects should be located in different directories.**

This makes it easy to store files with different usage characteristics on different filesystems.

* "Shareable" files are those that can be stored on one host and used on others.

* "Unshareable" files are those that are not shareable.

For example, the files in user home directories are shareable whereas device lock files are not.

* "Static" files include binaries, libraries, documentation files and other files that do not change without system administrator intervention.

* "Variable" files are files that are not static.

**Rationale**

 Shareable files can be stored on one host and used on several others.

 Typically , however, not all files in the filesystem hierarchy are shareable and so each system has local storage containing at least its unshareable files.
 It is convenient if all the files a system requires that are stored on a foreign host can be made available by *mounting one or a few directories from the foreign host*.

Static and variables should be segregated because static files, unlike variable files, can be stored on read-only media and do not to be backed up the same schedule as variable files.

Historical UNIX-like filesystem hierarchies contained both static and variable files under both `/usr` and `/etc`. In order to realize the advantages mentioned above, the `/var` hierarchy was created and all variable files were transferred from /usr to /var. Consequently `/usr` can now be mounted read-only (if it is a separate filesystem).  
